[WIP] Terraform Docs for TF policy (#2690)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-policy/v0.1.x (beta)/docs/policy/index.mdx

1. Organize policies into policy sets on HCP Terraform and target projects, workspaces, or tags for evaluation.
1. Start a workspace run to trigger policy evaluations and report the results in HCP Terraform.

## Policy-as-code

Policy-as-code is the practice of writing code in a high-level language to define, test, and automate policy enforcement. By representing policies as code in text files, you can apply software development best practices to your policy enforcement, such as version control, testing, and automated deployments.

## Evaluation and enforcement

HCP Terraform uses Terraform policy to evaluate your policies during Terraform runs. HCP Terraform evaluates each policy when the data the policy references is available. You can also configure an enforcement level with each policy, which determines when a policy violation halts a run or continues a run with a warning message.

### Evaluation stages

You can use Terraform policy to enforce policy at multiple points during a workspace run. Not all infrastructure data is available at the start of a run, so Terraform policy supports policy evaluation at three distinct stages of each Terraform run:

> - Pre-plan: HCP Terraform executes provider and module policies that evaluate meta-arguments such as their source and version during workspace initialization before Terraform installs the providers or modules. A policy violation prevents Terraform from downloading  the providers or modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pre-plan: HCP Terraform executes provider and module policies that evaluate pre-plan arguments, such as their source and version, during workspace initialization and before Terraform installs the providers or modules. A policy violation prevents Terraform from downloading  the providers or modules.
```
I won't die on this hill, but if we're going to say that TFP uses the same HCL that Terraform uses, this use of "meta-argument" might be confusing.

> - Pre-plan: HCP Terraform executes provider and module policies that evaluate meta-arguments such as their source and version during workspace initialization before Terraform installs the providers or modules. A policy violation prevents Terraform from downloading  the providers or modules.

Reviewer 2: @vpaul97 Will this stage be refered as pre-plan or setup ?

- Apply time: Some attribute values are unknown until Terraform applies your changes. Terraform marks these attributes as `"(known after apply)"` when it creates a plan. During the apply operation, policies run after Terraform makes changes to your infrastructure and determines these attribute values. Because Terraform must apply the changes before determining if there is a policy violation, HCP Terraform notifies teams of any non-complaint infrastructure after the Terraform apply is complete. A team member must manually resolve the policy violation and redeploy the infrastructure.

### Enforcement levels

The enforcement model for Terraform policy allows you to designate an enforcement level for each policy. The enforcement level determines whether the deployment continues with a warning or whether Terraform blocks the deployment. Users with the correct permissions can override some policy enforcement violations and allow the deployment to continue. Refer to [Policy enforcement levels](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/policy-enforcement/manage-policy-sets#policy-enforcement-levels) in the HCP Terraform documentation for more information.

## Benefits

> Terraform policy provides the following benefits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terraform policy provides the following benefits. For information about the differences between Terraform policy and other supported policy-as-code frameworks, refer to [Compare policy frameworks](/terraform/policy/compare). 
```

- Early validation: Terraform evaluates provider and module policies are during the `terraform init` operation before any downloads occur.
- Post-apply evaluation: Policies can validate provider-computed values, such as ARNs, IDs, and ports, that are only known after Terraform provisions resources.
- Resource relationship queries: Use built-in functions, such as `core::getresources()`, to validate relationships between resources.
- Data source lookups: Policies can query data source results directly using `core::getdatasource()` to enforce dynamic requirements.

### Flexible enforcement levels

Terraform policy supports enforcement levels for customizing how to proceed when Terraform detects a violation. Refer to [Policy enforcement levels](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/policy-enforcement/manage-policy-sets#policy-enforcement-levels) for details.

## Guidance

Refer to the following topics for next steps on implementing policies authored for the Terraform policy framework:

- [Install the Terraform policy CLI](/terraform/policy/install) on your local machine.
- Write policies. Refer to [Write policies](/terraform/policy/write) for more information.

> - Test your policies. Refer to [Test policies](/terraform/policy/test) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Learn how to write policies and tests for Terraform policy. Refer to [Write Terraform policies](/terraform/policy/write).
- For complete examples, including tests, refer to [Terraform policy examples](/terraform/policy/examples).
```
Mostly as a reminder that we need to update these links.

- Commit your policies and tests to a VCS. Refer to [VCS setup for Terraform policy](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/policy-enforcement/manage-policy-sets/terraform-policy-vcs) for more information.
- Enforce your policies in HCP Terraform. Refer to [HCP Terraform policy enforcement overview](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/policy-enforcement) for more information.

> - To learn more about the advantages of Terraform policy, refer to [Why Terraform policy?](/terraform/policy/why).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can [write custom plugins](/terraform/policy/write/plugins) to extend Terraform policy.
```

---
page_title: Terraform policy
description: >-

>   Terraform policy is a streamlined policy framework with a familiar HCL-based syntax that integrates directly with Terraform providers, letting you seamlessly evaluate policies as part of your normal infrastructure workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Learn about the Terraform policy framework. Terraform policy evaluates infrastructure as code policies and integrates with Terraform providers using HCL.
```

@include "partials/beta.mdx"

## Overview

Terraform policy introduces a declarative HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL) based policy language that integrates directly with Terraform and its wide ecosystem of providers, letting you write policies that can reference any resource defined in a Terraform provider in a syntax familiar to Terraform practitioners.

In order to implement Terraform policy for your organization, you will:

1. Write policies for resources defined in any Terraform provider using Terraform policy's configuration language, based on HCL.
1. Test your policies locally with the `tfpolicy` CLI to ensure each policy targets the correct resources and behaves as you expect.
1. Commit your policies to a Version Control System (VCS) repository and connect it to HCP Terraform.
1. Organize policies into policy sets on HCP Terraform and target projects, workspaces, or tags for evaluation.

> 1. Trigger runs on workspaces to have Terraform policy evaluate policies and report the results in HCP Terraform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terraform policy is a policy-as-code framework that integrates directly with Terraform providers. You can write policies for the framework using HashiCorp configuration language (HCL) syntax, which lets you reference any resource defined in a Terraform provider. At runtime, HCP Terraform can evaluate and enforce them across your organization as part of your normal infrastructure workflows. 

@include "partials/beta.mdx"

## Workflow

1. Write policies for resources defined in any Terraform provider.
1. Test your policies locally with the `tfpolicy` CLI to ensure each policy targets the correct resources and behaves as you expect.
1. Commit your policies to a version control system (VCS) repository and connect it to HCP Terraform.
1. Organize policies into policy sets on HCP Terraform and target projects, workspaces, or tags for evaluation.
1. Start a workspace run to trigger policy evaluations and report the results in HCP Terraform.
```

## Policy as code

Policy as code is the practice of writing code in a high-level language to define, test, and automate policy enforcement. By representing policies as code in text files, you can apply software development best practices to your policy enforcement, such as version control, testing, and automated deployments.

Policy as code provides a number of benefits, including:

- **Codification**: By representing policy logic as code using HCL, Terraform policy allows you to develop policies alongside your infrastructure configuration, and use the same workflows to develop, manage, and deploy your policies as you do with Terraform configuration.

- **Version Control**: Policies are stored as text files and managed by your version control system. This lets you take advantage of all the benefits of a modern VCS such as history, diffs, and pull requests.

- **Testing**: You can write tests along with your policies to help ensure that they work as you expect before you enforce them within your organization. Policy tests live alongside your policies, and become part of your change management process, helping you to avoid errors when you make changes to your policies.

> - **Automation**: Policies provide guardrails for automated infrastructure deployment. As the number of automated systems grow, there is also a growing need to protect those automated systems from performing dangerous actions. Implementing policy as code allows you to include policy enforcement in your infrastructure management pipeleines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Policy as code](/sentinel/docs/concepts/policy-as-code) in the Sentinel documentation for more information.
```
Alternatively, we can create a global partial so that we only have to maintain one description of the PAC concept.

## Evaluation and enforcement

> HCP Terraform uses Terrafrom policy to evaluate your policies during Terraform runs. HCP Terraform will evaluate each policy as early as possible during each run, depending on when the data the policy refers to is available. You can also configure an enforcement level with each policy, depending on whether you want a policy violation to halt a run or produce a warning message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HCP Terraform uses Terraform policy to evaluate your policies during Terraform runs. HCP Terraform evaluates each policy when the data the policy references is available. You can also configure an enforcement level with each policy, which determines when a policy violation halts a run or continues a run with a warning message.
```

### Evaluation stages

You can use Terraform policy to enforce policy at multiple points during a workspace run. Not all infrastructure data is available at the start of a run, so Terraform policy supports policy evaluation at three distinct stages of each Terraform run:

- **Pre-plan**: Provider and module policies that evaluate their meta-arguments are executed during init time, before Terraform installs the providers or modules. A policy violation prevents Terraform from downloading these providers and modules.

- **Plan time**: If all of the referenced attributes are available at plan time, Terraform policy evaluates policies against the Terraform plan before any infrastructure is changed. These policies are ideal for catching configuration errors before Terraform makes changes to your infrastructure.

> - **Apply time**: Some attributes will not have determined values until Terraform applies your changes. Terraform marks these attributes as `"(known after apply)"` when it creates a plan. Apply-time evaluation allows policies to run after Terraform makes changes to your infrastructure and determines these attribute values. Since Terraform must apply the changes before determining if there is a policy violation, HCP Terraform will notify users of any non-complaint infrastructure after the Terraform apply is complete, and users must manually resolve the policy violation and redeploy the infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pre-plan: HCP Terraform executes provider and module policies that evaluate their meta-arguments during workspace initialization before Terraform installs the providers or modules. A policy violation prevents Terraform from downloading these providers and modules.

- Plan time: If all of the referenced attributes are available during the plan operation, Terraform policy evaluates policies against the Terraform plan before Terraform changes any infrastructure. These policies are ideal for catching configuration errors before Terraform makes changes to your infrastructure.

- Apply time: Some attribute values are unknown until Terraform applies your changes. Terraform marks these attributes as `"(known after apply)"` when it creates a plan. During the apply operation, policies run after Terraform makes changes to your infrastructure and determines these attribute values. Because Terraform must apply the changes before determining if there is a policy violation, HCP Terraform notifies teams of any non-complaint infrastructure after the Terraform apply is complete. A team member must manually resolve the policy violation and redeploy the infrastructure.
```
Use present tense. Only use bold when referencing UI labels and introducing terms in prose.

### Enforcement levels

> The enforcement model for Terraform policy allows you to designate an enforcement level for each policy depending on whether you want the policy to produce a warning message or block deployments, and whether users with the correct permissions can override the policy enforcement and continue the run in spite of a policy violation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The enforcement model for Terraform policy allows you to designate an enforcement level for each policy. The enforcement level determines whether the deployment continues with a warning or whether Terraform blocks the deployment. Users with the correct permissions can override some policy enforcement violations and allow the deployment to continue. Refer to [Policy enforcement levels](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/policy-enforcement/manage-policy-sets#policy-enforcement-levels) in the HCP Terraform documentation for more information.
```

- **Advisory**: Advisory policies provide feedback to the user but do not stop the run. Use these policies to inform users about potential issues or to socialize policy standards before making them mandatory.

- **Mandatory-overridable**: If a mandatory-overridable policy fails at the pre-plan or plan phase, HCP Terraform will block the apply phase. HCP Terraform users with the `Manage policy overrides` permission can override these policy failures and enable the apply. Since Terraform cannot evaluate apply time policies until after it makes infrastructure changes, HCP Terraform will report these policies failures, but a user must resolve them and redeploy the infrastructure to return to compliance.

> - **Mandatory**: If a mandatory policy fails at pre-plan or plan time, HCP Terraform will immediately halt the run and block the apply phase. Users cannot override mandatory policies. As with mandatory-overridable policies, HCP Terraform will report policy violations that occur after the apply phase, but a user must resolve them and redeploy the infrastructure to return to compliance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We should link to the canonical information.

## Organize policies in HCP Terraform

> After you write your policies, test them, and commit them to a VCS repository, you will organize them into policy sets in HCP Terraform. Then you will configure those policy sets to apply to specific workspaces, projects, or tags. HCP Terraform will automatically evaluate all policies in applicable policy sets whenever you plan and apply changes to a workspace, and report any errors to the end user. Refer to [HCP Terraform policy enforcement overview](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/policy-enforcement) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We already said this in the Workflow section

## Next steps

> To implement Terraform policy for your organization, you will complete the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Guidance

Refer to the following topics for next steps on implementing policies authored for the Terraform policy framework:
```
Kind of hair-splitting, but because an overview page is, well, an overview and not a step in the process, this section is positioned more like an index of information, as opposed to 'now do this', if that makes sense.
